Welcome to the TDC blog!
************************

:slug: welcome

You're reading **blog.transport-data.org**,
a new communications channel for the **Transport Data Commons (TDC)**
and **Transport Data Commons Initiative (TDCI)**.

The TDC blog will be a place for a diversity of updates
*from* active participants in the TDCI,
*for* the broader TDC community.
These will include:

- Spotlight on **individual records** (both old and new) available on the Commons,
  showing the many of variety, types, formats, and sources
  that the TDC supports and TDCI participants work on.
- **Data visualizations** and other products
  generated using data available through the Commons.
- Improvements to the **TDC Portal** web interface
  (`portal.transport-data.org <https://portal.transport-data.org>`_)
- Updates on **new and improved tools and HOWTO guides**
  for working with data and metadata,
  and transforming them from ‘raw’ or original formats
  to TDC-compliant formats based on the SDMX standards.
- Success stories from data providers, data users, data workers,
  and others who benefit from sharing data through the TDC
  and improving their capabilities through community-developed processes.
- Invitations and announcements for TDC-related **events**, open meetings,
  seminars, training opportunities, presentations, etc.
- **Videos** and other multimedia content on transport data topics.
- Copies of the **TDC Monthly Recap** e-mail newsletter.

The launch of the TDC blog is part of a October 2025–March 2026 project
funded by UK Aid
through its `Climate Compatible Growth (CCG) <https://climatecompatiblegrowth.com>`_
Agile Research Programming Fund.
The blog will also feature updates on contributions and support
(both in-kind and financial) for the Commons by organizations like CCG,
and stories about how the practices and features of the Commons allow them
to deliver on their goals and missions.
